Move the technical docs to serverless-manager (#166)
kyma-project/serverless-manager: docs/user/08-10-best-practices.md

# Serverless best practices

# Overview - Its all about custom resources

Kyma Serverless introduces a [Function](/docs/user/06-10-function.md) CustomResourceDefinition (CRD) as an extension to the Kubernetes API server.

> Defining a Function in Kyma essentially means creating a new instance of the Function custom resource (CR). However, the content of the Function CR specification may become quite long. It consists of the code (or git reference to the code), dependencies, runtime specification, build-time specification, etc. Additionally, there are other CRs that are relevant for a Function developer - i.e. [APIRule](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/apix-01-apirule/) (defining how Function is exposed to the outside world), [Subscription](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription/) (defining which CloudEvents should trigger Function) and others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining a Function in Kyma essentially means creating a new instance of the Function custom resource (CR). However, the content of the Function CR specification may become quite long. It consists of the code (or Git reference to the code), dependencies, runtime specification, build-time specification, etc. Additionally, there are other CRs that are relevant for a Function developer - that is, [APIRule](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/apix-01-apirule/) (defining how Function is exposed to the outside world), [Subscription](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/latest/05-technical-reference/00-custom-resources/evnt-01-subscription/) (defining which CloudEvents should trigger a Function), and others.
```

> All of that can be easily managed using the following best practices for the Function development. You will find hints that will be helpful for you at any stage of your development journey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of that can be easily managed using the following best practices for the Function development. You will find recommendations that will be helpful for you at any stage of your development journey.
```

# Use UI to explore

> At the beginning of your Kyma journey you will probably want to evaluate Serverless and draft a few Functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the beginning of your Kyma journey, you will probably want to evaluate Serverless and draft a few Functions.
```

> Kyma Dashboard is perfect to gain basic experience and start the journey with Kyma Functions. The Dashboard consists of UI components dedicated to Serverless. They will help you draft your first Functions by putting the code directly in the browser using a Web IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kyma Dashboard is perfect to gain basic experience and start the journey with Kyma Functions. Its dedicated Serverless features help you draft your first Functions by putting the code directly in the browser using a Web IDE.
```

Kyma Dashboard will also help you expose your Function using HTTP, define environment variables, subscribe to CloudEvents, bind ServiceInstances, and even show you the Function logs - all in one place.

Get started with [Function UI](/docs/user/01-10-create-inline-function.md)
![function-ui](../assets/svls-function-ui.png)

# Use Kyma CLI for better development experience

> Defining your Function from the UI is very quick and easy but it might not be enough to satisfy your needs as a developer. To code and test more complex cases, you may want to write your Function in your favorite IDE or run and debug the Function on your local machine, before actually deploying in Kyma runtime. Also, you would probably want to avoid recreating the same Functions manually from the UI on a different environment. In the end, having deployable artifacts is more desirable. This is where Kyma CLI comes in handy as it allows you to keep your Function's code and configuration in a form of a workspace. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Defining your Function from the UI is very quick and easy, but it might not be enough to satisfy your needs as a developer. To code and test more complex cases, you may want to write your Function in your favorite IDE or run and debug the Function on your local machine, before actually deploying in Kyma runtime. Also, you would probably want to avoid recreating the same Functions manually from the UI on a different environment. In the end, having deployable artifacts is more desirable. This is where Kyma CLI comes in handy, as it allows you to keep your Function's code and configuration in the form of a workspace. 
```

> Defining your Function from the UI is very quick and easy, but it might not be enough to satisfy your needs as a developer. To code and test more complex cases, you may want to write your Function in your favorite IDE or run and debug the Function on your local machine, before actually deploying in Kyma runtime. Also, you would probably want to avoid recreating the same Functions manually from the UI on a different environment. In the end, having deployable artifacts is more desirable. This is where Kyma CLI comes in handy, as it allows you to keep your Function's code and configuration in the form of a workspace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Defining your Function from the Kyma Dashboard is very quick and easy, but it might not be enough to satisfy your needs as a developer. To code and test more complex cases, you may want to write your Function in your favorite IDE or run and debug the Function on your local machine, before actually deploying in Kyma runtime. Also, you might want to avoid recreating the same Functions manually from the UI on a different environment. In the end, having deployable artifacts is more desirable. This is where Kyma CLI comes in handy, as it enables you to keep your Function's code and configuration in the form of a workspace. 
```

Initialize a scaffold for a brand new Function using the `kyma init function` command or fetch the current state of an existing Function deployed in your Kyma runtime using `kyma sync function`.
Focus on the Function code and develop it from your favorite IDE. Configure your Functions directly in the [`config.yaml` manifest file](/docs/user/07-60-function-configuration-file.md)

> >**TIP:** Use `kyma init function --vscode` to generate json schema which can be used in VSCode for autocompletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**TIP:** Use `kyma init function --vscode` to generate a `.json` schema, which can be used in VSCode for autocompletion.
```

[code font for file extensions](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/docs/guidelines/content-guidelines/03-formatting.md)

Kyma CLI helps you run your code locally with a single `kyma run function` command. You can run your Function using your local Docker daemon with the same runtime Docker context, as if it was run in Kyma runtime.

>**TIP:** Use `kyma run function` with `--hot-deploy` and spare yourself unnecessary restarts of the Functions whenever you test a changed Function logic. Also, use [`--debug` option](/docs/user/01-40-debug-function.md) to allow connecting with your favorite debugger.
>>

![kyma-cli-functions](../assets/svls-kyma-cli-functions.png)

Having written and tested your Function locally, simply deploy it to the Kyma runtime with the `kyma apply function` command, used in the folder of your Function's workspace. The command reads the files, translates them to the Kubernetes manifests, and deploys the Function.

# Deploy using CI/CD

> Kyma UI helps you get started. Kyma CLI helps you iterate and develop Functions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kyma Dashboard helps you get started. Kyma CLI helps you iterate and develop Functions. 
```

> But at the end of the day you may want an automated deployment of your application, where Functions are just part of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But at the end of the day, you may want an automated deployment of your application, where Functions are just part of it.
```

> It all comes down to deployment of the Kubernetes applications on different Kyma runtimes in a GitOps fashion. For the sake of simplicity, the deployment approach for Functions should not differ from deployment of the other Kubernetes workloads, ConfigMaps or Secrets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It all comes down to the deployment the Kubernetes applications on different Kyma runtimes in a GitOps fashion. For the sake of simplicity, the deployment approach for Functions should not differ from the deployment of the other Kubernetes workloads, ConfigMaps, or Secrets.
```

> So in the end what you need is YAML manifests for everything - including Functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So, in the end, what you need is YAML manifests for everything - including Functions.
```

> Fortunately, Kyma CLI helps you generate the YAML mainfests matching your `config.yaml` file crafted before.

Reviewer: It's not fortune, it's hard work that the Kyma team did to optimize the Kyma CLI :D 

```suggestion
Good news: Kyma CLI helps you generate the YAML manifests matching your `config.yaml` file crafted before.
```

> Use `--dry-run` option of the `kyma apply function` command to generate Kubernetes manifests that will include the Function CR itself but also all the related CRs (for example, APIRules, Subscriptions, etc).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `--dry-run` option of the `kyma apply function` command to generate Kubernetes manifests that will include the Function CR itself and all the related CRs (for example, APIRules, Subscriptions, etc.).
```

   ```bash
   kyma apply function --dry-run --ci -o yaml > my-function.yaml
   ```  

> The generated manifest should be a part of all the manifests that define your application and pushed to the git repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated manifest should be a part of all the manifests that define your application and are pushed to the Git repository.
```

just guessing the "are"

> Deploy everything in a consistent way either using CI/CD or GitOps operators (e.g. `fluxcd` or `argocd`) installed on your Kyma runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy everything in a consistent way either using CI/CD or GitOps operators (for example, `fluxcd` or `argocd`) installed on your Kyma runtime.
```

> >**NOTE:** Kyma Functions come in two types: `git` and `inline`. The [Git type](/docs/user/01-11-create-git-function.md) allows you to configure a Git repository as a source of your Function code instead of creating it `inline`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** Kyma Functions come in two types: `git` and `inline`. For the [Git type](/docs/user/01-11-create-git-function.md), you configure a Git repository as a source of your Function code instead of creating it `inline`.
```

> This allows you to skip rendering of the Kubernetes manifests and deploying them each time you made a change in the Function code or dependencies. Simply push the changes to the referenced Git repository, and the Serverless controller will rebuild the Function deployed in your Kyma runtime. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, you can skip rendering the Kubernetes manifests and deploying them each time you made a change in the Function code or dependencies. Simply push the changes to the referenced Git repository, and the Serverless controller will rebuild the Function deployed in your Kyma runtime. 
```

> Have a look at this [example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/incluster_eventing) that illustrates how you can set up your Git project. Mind the `k8s resources` folder with the YAML manifests to be pushed to the Kubernetes API server (for example using kubectl in our CI/CD or GitOps) and the `src` folder containing the Functions' source code. They are pulled directly by Kyma Serverless to build new Function images whenever the source content changes in the git repository.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have a look at this [example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/incluster_eventing) that illustrates how you can set up your Git project. Mind the `k8s resources` folder with the YAML manifests to be pushed to the Kubernetes API server (for example, using kubectl in our CI/CD or GitOps) and the `src` folder containing the Functions' source code. They are pulled directly by Kyma Serverless to build new Function images whenever the source content changes in the Git repository.  
```
